We're going to talk
about how to access
your Raspberry Pi remotely
using Secure Shell.
So, the idea here is
let's say you got
a Raspberry Pi and you
want to use it headless.
Okay. Users called it headless.
So, I don't want to connect
my keyboard to it and screen
to it and mouse to it.
I want to have it sitting there
connected to the network,
by Wi-Fi let's say,
and then I'm remote on
another computer and I
just want to connect
to it to my Raspberry Pi and use
my Raspberry Pi from
my other computer,
which is how I use it a lot.
Right? Now to do that,
you need a shell or remote shell.
Okay. You need a
a terminal window
basically that opens up on your,
let's say I'm using my laptop,
opens up my laptop.
But when I type into
that terminal window,
it sends all that straight
to the Raspberry Pi,
and then when the Raspberry
Pi prints something to
the screen it sends it all
to my terminal window.
Right? So, I'm using
the Raspberry Pi but I'm
using it from my laptop.
So, I'm using it remotely.
So, in order to do that,
you have to make a connection to
the Raspberry Pi
and we're going to
use Secure Shell to do this.
So, now Secure Shell
is a good tool,
is the way you do
this by standard,
a common way to do this, a
good safe way to do this.
Secure Shell is secure
because the communication
is encrypted.
In order to make this work,
you have to have on
your [inaudible]
connect my laptop
to my Raspberry Pi.
On my laptop I have to have
a Secure Shell client,
SSH client running.
On my Raspberry Pi,
I have to have a Secure
Shell server running.
Now, the Secure Shell server
on Raspberry Pi is
not activated by
default and its name as
the process name is called SSHD,
Secure Shell D for daemon.
Daemon is a generic term
on Unix Linux machines
that is just a process that is
forever running in the background
waiting for something to happen.
Okay. That's a daemon.
What you want to have happen
is you want to set up
your Raspberry Pi.
So, when you boot it up,
when you turn it on, one
of the things that
automatically happens at boot,
just after boot anyway,
is that it starts
this SSHD process
and it says SSHD process
just sits there.
Its job is to sit
there and wait until
some Secure Shell client tries
to send a message to say
look I want to communicate.
Then when it does then it
allows communication then the
client on your laptop say,
communicates with the SSHD server
running on your Raspberry
Pi and they talk.
So, that's what SSHD is.
So, we need to get SSHD
running on the Raspberry Pi.
It is not by default.
So, how do you do that?
So, we need to enable it.
So, here's how you enable it.
You launch Raspberry
Pi configuration.
So, just boot up
your Raspberry Pi.
Go to the top
bar way in the left,
pull down, you select
Raspberry Pi Configuration,
actually under Preferences,
you select Raspberry
Pi Configuration,
navigate to the Interfaces tab
and then just select
Enabled next to the SSH.
So, you'll see several rows of
several different things
that can be started at
boot time and one of them
is going to be SSH and
it'll have a radio
button for Enabled,
another one for Disabled.
Disabled will probably
be selected by default.
So, you go ahead
and select Enabled
and then click okay
and that's it.
Then the next time you boot,
SSHD will just be running
automatically and you will be
able to connect to
your Raspberry Pi remotely.
Now, one thing about this is,
once you do this,
you're allowing remote network
connections from anybody.
So, you're in some ways
opening up your Raspberry
Pi to attack.
Okay? So, please change
that password in that Raspberry
Pi before you do this.
Okay? You know the default
password, change it.
Change it before you do this.
It is just really stupid
to have it the same
default password that
everybody in the world knows
when you do such a thing.
So, make sure you
change that first.
Okay. So, let's assume
you've done that.
You've got Secure Shell D
activated on your Raspberry Pi,
so SSHD is running.
Now, you want to connect
to your Raspberry Pi
from your laptop say.
Now, what you're going to need to
do is you're going to
start on your laptop.
You're going to start
a Secure Shell client
and we'll talk about
that in a second there.
But if you're doing it in Linux,
it's easy, just type SSH.
So, say you've got Linux
running on your laptop,
we'll assume that for now.
Then you type SSH that starts to
Secure Shell client,
it's built in.
But the argument to
SSH that you have to
provide is the IP address
of the target machine,
of the machine you
want to connect to.
Now, the target machine
in this case
is going to be a Raspberry Pi.
So, you have to know
the IP address of
your Raspberry Pi in order
to make this connection.
Okay. So now, normally,
when I say normally,
when I say I'm doing
Secure Shell to
my machine at school,
I know the domain name
for my machine at school.
It has a domain name,
say ics.uci.edu.
That's a domain name.
Right? So, I could
type secure SSH ics.uci.edu.
That domain name gets
converted into an IP address.
So, using Domain Name
Service, DNS request,
and I don't have to know
the actual numerical IP address.
I just need to know
the domain name.
Now this works if your machine
has a domain name.
Raspberry Pi. Your Raspberry Pi
will not have a domain name.
Unless you paid money to
your ISP to get
a domain name for your Raspberry
Pi which is possible,
you will not have a domain name.
Normally what happens
is when you connect
a Raspberry Pi or a laptop or
something to an open network,
open Wi-Fi network, is
that they get their IP
address dynamically.
Okay? So, there's
a protocol called DHCP
which is enabled by default
on most Wi-Fi networks,
and when you start up
your laptop let's say,
and you connect to the Internet,
it gets an IP address using DHCP.
But this IP address can be
different every time you connect.
Okay? It doesn't have
a stable static.
It doesn't have
a static IP address.
Now the machine on my desk,
let's say, I need to be able
to log into it remotely.
It needs to have one IP
address all the time.
So, I have a static IP
address on that machine.
If you want a static
IP address for
a home machine, you
have to pay for it,
like my cable company
charged me money for
additional static IP addresses.
So, I don't do that.
So, I'm assuming that
for your Raspberry Pi,
you will not have
a static IP address.
If you have a static IP address,
then you have a domain name,
a fixed domain name that can
always map to your Raspberry Pi.
But I'm assuming that you
don't. Almost nobody does.
So, what happens is
your Raspberry Pi can get
a different IP address
every time it connects
to its network.
So, before you can
make a connection like
what we're talking about,
you have to know what
that IP address is.
So, how are you going to know it?
So, here's how you
going to know it.
What you're going to do
is before you do this,
you're going to have to boot up
your Raspberry Pi and
connect a keyboard
and screen and all
that to it and we're
going to issue
a command so that we can
see what its IP address is.
Then this is sort of
the cheating way to do it.
We're going to see it using
the command that I'm
going to describe.
Then, once you see
that IP address,
then you can go to
your laptop and do
SSH and give that IP address
and you can connect.
So, let's see how we do this.
In order to do this, you use
a command called ifconfig.
Okay. So, what we're going to
do is log into your Raspberry Pi,
type ifconfig, and
it's going to give
us the information that we want
and I'll show you how to find it.
It's going to be
a lot of information,
but in there is going
to be your IP address
and let me show you
how to get that.
So, I did ifconfig
on my Raspberry Pi and
it looks like this.
Now, notice basically
there's three,
in this case, there are
three paragraphs of information.
Okay? When I say
three paragraphs, three groups.
First, you can see on
the left column, right?
Eth0 then lo, then wlan0.
So, eth0, the first paragraph,
that's my ethernet connection,
my wired ethernet jack.
Okay? That is not
connected in this case.
So, I don't have an IP
address for that one.
Lo, the next block is
a local loop back.
Okay? That's just for
testing purposes.
Okay? So, we're not
using that either.
The bottom one, wlan
is wireless LAN.
That's what we're interested in.
Okay? Now, I blocked out
some information in red,
my hardware address that
I don't want you to
necessarily see from
my particular machine.
Actually, at this point I
don't care because I haven't
been using that Raspberry Pi
but I blocked there anyway.
But the key thing
that you want to
see if you look at wlan0
down there at the bottom,
see in red I've boxed,
it see it says inet addr
and then there's
a number that I boxed,
that's the Internet address.
That's the wireless
LANs internet address.
So, that address, I
could record that.
Right now I know that.
So, that's where
I'm going to connect to
when I do Secure Shell.
So now, let's say now I
know that number,
that IP address.
So, now say I want to access
the Raspberry Pi with
Secure Shell from a laptop
and let's imagine
the laptop is using
Linux so that it has
Secure Shell built-in.
Linux or Mac OS.
Mac OSX, it's base is,
it has parts, it's
based on Linux.
Okay? I know there's,
I'll get a flame more of that
but it's based on Linux.
So, it also has Secure
Shell built-in.
So, use a terminal window
if you're using Mac OSX.
Let's assume that
we're going to log in.
So, what we want to do is from
our laptop we want to log in
to the Raspberry Pi
and we have to log in with
a particular account.
So, let's assume we are using
the default Pi account.
Right? So, notice at the top,
I type and I'm doing
this from a Mac,
I type ssh and I say,
I give let's say pi.
The username that
I'm going to use,
@, and then I give
the IP address.
You hit enter. There's
some stuff that it
prints out and it connects
you and that's that.
Now, one thing to
note is that the
first time that you do
Secure Shell like this,
the first time you ever
do Secure Shell to
a particular machine,
it will say, look,
I don't have this
IP address on file,
are you sure you want to connect.
If you're sure that you typed
in the right IP address,
then you type yes and then
remember that for the future.
Then once I'm connected,
then I can type
regular Linux commands
and they will be actually
reflecting what's,
it will be sent to
the Raspberry Pi.
So if I type, for instance, ls,
it shows me the directory that it
showed me the contents
of directory or
actually the contents of
the Raspberry Pi's
directory. All right.
So, now I'm just,
everything I type into the shell
is getting sent to
the Raspberry Pi;
everything Raspberry
Pi prints out appears
in the shell on the screen
of my laptop let's say.
So, now I am
successfully accessing
the Raspberry Pi
remotely using SSH.